Good day everyone. It's Michelle J.
Raymond and listeners. This week I'm
excited because we've got another guest
on the show who normally I say this is
someone I'm friends with, but we're
actually talking for the first time
after I've been secretly stalking pretty
much newsletters, content, anything I
could get my hands on. Lee Denma,
welcome to the show.
>> Thank you. I'm so happy to be here. But
we're friends now. I It's legit now. We
We've spoken for half an hour. We're
friends now.
>> That is exactly it. And I knew we would
be talking a lot because honestly, like
when I see your posts and I sit there
and I'm like, "Yes, that's the same
thing I see with my clients, and I'm
like high-fiving you from a distance."
And as I said, I read your newsletter as
well because
>> today's episode listeners, we are here
to help you stamp out corporate content
waste because Lee, you and I, we've seen
too much and this just has to stop,
right?
>> Has to stop.
So in today's episode, let's start with
when we talk about content waste, what
does that actually look like in a B2B
company and your experience?
>> Yeah, let me tell you a story. It's
going to demonstrate all of it. So I had
a client a couple years back now and I
walked in and began auditing their
content. And after a couple days, I
realized that they had in the the
thousands of pieces of content. They
had, I think, 1,700 pieces of content
that I found on SharePoint drives and
here and there and on hard drives and
people kept sending me content and I was
like, "This stuff isn't updated. It's
not maintained. It's not findable. Sales
isn't using it." That's what waste looks
like. Somebody spent money to write each
of those pieces and nobody was using it.
>> That makes me cry. And I'm also at the
same time not judging anyone out there
because I'm pretty sure my website is
where great blog articles go to die and
very rarely make their way back. And the
thing that also makes me cry a little
bit is with how much effort and
sometimes cost also goes into content
that goes out onto LinkedIn that for me
this waste is often content that's not
helping anybody. Like it's just
literally done for the sake of it. And
I'm pretty sure you would see that as
well. But post after post with no
strategy. You don't know where it's
going. You don't know who it's for. And
I'm thinking, how much time and money is
going into this? And it's just going
down the drain. Like, it's crazy.
>> Yeah. I guess there's two forms of
waste. One is good content that nobody's
using, and then the other one is content
that never had any purpose. And either
way, you've wasted time, you've wasted
money, you've lost an opportunity. The
opportunity cost of this crappy content
is pretty high.
>> Yeah, it sure is. And the other thing
that I look at that is as someone that's
putting out the content, I don't think
anyone Lee is sitting there going, "Oh,
today I'm going to go to work and I'm
going to write some great content that
no one sees and I'm going to feel good
about myself or I'm never going to get
trained in how to do great content or
build a strategy or understand things.
So then I'm going to put it out there
and it's going to flop. It just feels
awful for people when that that's
happening. And I think that's why I want
to have this conversation today and make
it practical for our listeners so that
they don't get stuck in feeling like I'm
working my butt off.
>> I feel like I'm getting nowhere and
everyone in the business is actually
judging me thinking, you know, marketing
or content is pointless and my job isn't
really that important. So, I think we
can change that conversation today. But
why do you think that so much good
content out there never actually gets
used?
>> Right? If we're talking about good
content, you know, you did understand
the buyer, right? You did understand
your audience and and it's good content.
It's well written. It's unique. It's
even differentiated.
It never gets used. It goes to waste
because no one knows about it. So, your
sales team doesn't even know it exists.
You never told people that you published
it and wrote it. Nobody can find it.
You're not working in a tool that's
searchable and nobody knows how to use
it. And this is sales enablement I talk
about all the time. You've not literally
not trained people who aren't content
people how to use content to do their
jobs. They don't know what to do with an
ebook. So that needs to be discussed.
Another thing that really contributes to
this is silos in your organization. So
the marketing team goes about creating
content. Who is using it internally?
It's your sales team using it. It's your
account team. It's maybe the product
team, but since they're silos, there's
no synergy. There's no information
passed back and forth. There's
absolutely no way that you can help them
do their jobs if you never talk to them.
>> I know that we laugh around that, but I
remember having a conversation with a
client and I got to talk to both sides.
I got to talk to the marketing team who
had a goal of what they wanted to
achieve and then I took that and had a
conversation to understand a few things
more with the sales manager and I asked
him why he hadn't been sharing any of
the content and quite frankly he
embarrassed because it didn't sound like
him. It wasn't aligned with who they
were targeting. It wasn't speaking to
the problems he'd discovered. And I know
that that's not good content, but it
like for me it kind of underpins the
problem here when teams are working as
you say in silos and nobody's actually
getting in a room and having a
conversation and saying what should we
be doing to help you sell more and the
feedback from the sales team around what
they're hearing, what kinds of content
would make good content for them to be
able to share. So, who would have
thought, Lee, that a conversation
between teams is the secret to good
content? Do we have to really repeat
this? I think we do.
>> We do. It is one of the secrets. It's
one of the hacks, if you will. Get your
people to talk to each other. Sales
tells the content team about customer
conversations. The content team tells
sales about what formats they're
experimenting or where they want to
publish content. and events team gets
involved and tells people what
conversations they had at events and
where they're going and what they're
planning.
>> Yeah. And that's the thing is when we
all work together and come up with the
strategy that is actually aligned to the
whole team's business goals, then you
can actually start creating content that
really lands, really sticks, it
performs. Everybody's high-fiving
themselves. And it's kind of funny
because obviously like my specialty that
I talk about is all things LinkedIn,
LinkedIn company pages and getting your
employees active as well. But I realized
a long time ago that when I was creating
content on LinkedIn and it could be some
of my best work, you know, there there
are sometimes when you create something
and you're like high-fiving yourself,
but what actually was happening was it
was drowning down the feed, down the
gurgler, never to be seen again. At that
time it was 24 to 48 hours. Maybe now
content lasts for a couple of weeks. But
when I was putting my heart and soul
into this thing and only putting it in
the LinkedIn feed, that's when I went,
"Oh no. Oh no. This this has to stop
because I want to put it in other places
where people can find it. So this is how
this podcast was born because it's
searchable. The longevity was there."
And same with my YouTube channel. And I
guess you would see that with businesses
as well where they're putting all this
effort into some really cool content but
maybe only using it once. That to me is
another waste.
>> It's insane. Yeah. I see LinkedIn as one
distribution channel for content. It's a
channel. Channel meaning where people go
for information. LinkedIn is a big place
where B2B businesses, buyers go for
information, but it's one channel. So
there are other channels you should be
exploring with the content. Your content
should be going out in multiple
channels.
>> Is it because we don't have a strategy
that we end up just the goal is post
three times a week? Is that the
underpinning problem that we need to
solve first?
>> I think that it's possible that there
just isn't the awareness of the way
different channels and different content
types should fit together. So, for
example, you've got your spicy point of
view, right? You you're taking a stand
on something in the market and you've
written a blog post about it. You use
that post on social media. You write
zero-click content based on that post.
So, you're putting the idea on your
website. You're putting it on social
media and then you also send a
newsletter on it. And then your
employees also post around those
concepts on their pages. So, it's one
concept, right? Multiple channels. and
LinkedIn, you know, in your corporate
page, on your employee handles, in a
newsletter that's also on the platform.
So, it's one content piece, multiple
venues.
>> Yeah. And the cool thing about this that
I'm seeing right now with all the
research and dare I say the words AI
when we're talking about content because
I know it's meant to be the solution to
everything. But what I've been reading
is large language models, even if
they're reading your LinkedIn content,
whether it's a newsletter or posts or
things along those lines, actually
looking for credibility that comes not
just from one source, but how you show
up on your website, how you show up with
blog or YouTube or LinkedIn post. And
they all work together, which makes this
even more important to take the good
stuff and make sure we repurpose it. So
to your point, I currently write an
email newsletter. That's my baby email
newsletter. So hopefully all of my
listeners today, you'll subscribe to it.
But I started that and that has like 600
subscribers roughly, right? And so
that's my, you know, favorite kind of
audience that I can have, you know,
particular conversations with in a much
closer kind of way. And I enjoy that,
but it takes time. Everything that you
create takes time. So then I realized,
oh actually I've spent a lot of time on
that. Maybe I could create like a
LinkedIn newsletter from it. And then
from there there are ideas that go to
the website and you know sometimes
podcast ideas and they all come
together. But even I was like wasting so
many good ideas only putting it in one
spot because that was the thing. I wrote
this for my email newsletter. It must
stay in that bucket. And actually no,
you can adapt it into so many different
ways. And you know the podcast is the
classic example of ends up in a
newsletter, ends up a blog on the
website, ends up in the emails, short
form video clips. Like there are so many
cool tools now. That's what I love AI
for. Take the good long stuff and turn
it into some cool short stuff.
>> It's a really So I like to think of
content strategy as it's a discussion
around your center of gravity. Your
center of gravity, Michelle, is your
podcast. That's your anchor center of
gravity. And from your center of
gravity, you have other kind of planets
in the orbit, right? LinkedIn post, a
newsletter, a LinkedIn article, and so
an offplatform newsletter, an onplatform
newsletter. So some of the companies
that I work with have their blog is
their center of gravity, and that's
great. It's great. It's a good mid
mid-length content format. So, I think I
would encourage listeners to think about
what their center of gravity is and how
they're going to put forward big ideas
in that venue and then distribute it in
other ways across channels. So, a
podcast is a very logical center of
gravity, but I won't tell everybody to
go start a podcast. No way.
>> Yeah. Who would have thought that it's
not right for everybody? And this is the
thing that I'm getting a a little
worried for people out there that are
going to tools like chat GPT or the
large language models and saying give me
a strategy and the strategy comes up the
one-sizefits-all for everybody. You know
based on the averages out on the
internet this is what we think that you
should do. And I know you and I are very
aligned in the fact that no that is not
a one-sizefits-all approach to this but
finding the thing that you're really
good at. So, one of my clients, you
know, shout out to the team at
Pluggable. They have this amazing
YouTube channel that is just really has
picked up and grown in the last 12
months. They've been doing it for like
10 plus years, but in the last 12
months, they've nailed it. And so, what
we were able to do is look and go, well,
what's working over there? What can we
bring to LinkedIn with your employees
and with your company page? And so I
can't wait to see when they enable that
strategy to number one get so much more
return on the effort that they're
putting into a lot of that video content
and switching up the formats. But I
think LinkedIn works really great for
that distribution side of things. you
know, you've built communities and you
can get that message in front of as many
people as possible because Lee, one of
the things that I think people get
worried about is but if everyone posts
all at the same time or, you know, in a
similar kind of period around the same
topic, won't people get bored of that?
Won't they judge us? Won't they hate us
because we keep saying the same thing?
Not at all.
>> What's your opinion on this? Because I
have a pretty strong one, but I'll I'll
let you do some talking. So,
>> let's agree. You will get bored of your
point of view way before your audience
does. And if you have two, three, four,
five, you know, pillars, points of view
on specific things that you stand by,
you must be, it's mandatory for you to
repeat those. Don't start coming up with
opinions outside of those lanes because
pretty soon your market's not going to
know what you really stand for. But keep
repeating the four or five things where
you really want to plant your flag.
Yeah, the repetition I think is the
biggest easiest thing that you can do to
have wins across all the platforms that
most people go. We already posted about
that. We did a post on that two months
ago. We've already talked about that.
And if you think about organic
distribution, especially on social
platforms like LinkedIn, we know that
our content more and more and more is
not being shown to as many people. And
you're relying on your ideal audience
having been online at the time that you
spoke about that once, right?
>> And when I say it like this, it sounds
crazy that people think it, but our
brains, I think, protect us and go, we
don't want to say it too much. What if
we say it too much? And it's the
repetition
>> that is critical. And this is why I try
and say to people, if you've got 10,000
different products that you can sell,
pick your five favorites that are your
best sellers or the one that you want to
promote and just talk non-stop about
five instead of trying to talk a little
bit about 10,000 because everyone's like
snoozefest. Like at the end of the day,
you can't remember it.
>> This is not your friend group. This is
not your tight group of five friends who
are like, "Really, you told this story
last week." It is the opposite of that.
>> Yeah, it sure is. I've been on the end
of it myself where, you know, and I'm
guilty of it right now. Okay, so I'm
going to step into the confession box
for a moment because I know better. So,
I've written two books and I would be
very confident that there would be a lot
of people listening to this show that
wouldn't even know I've written one. I
did a poll a while back asking people
did they know and I was really surprised
that some of my close friends on
LinkedIn were like when did you write a
second book or I didn't know you wrote
the first book and these are like the
close people not even like the people
that are like you know a bit further
removed from my everyday world and I was
like oh no and then so if you flip it to
the other side I'm pretty sure everybody
in the world knows me talking about Tim
Tams every single Friday for the last
kind of couple of years, I get pictures
of them from all around the world.
People buying them because they saw them
in their local shops, which is like one
of my favorite things. You
>> Tim Tam, American, what is a Tim Tam?
>> Tim Tams are chocolate I'm going to say
cookies. I'd say biscuits here in
Australia, but I I know I've got to
interpret. So, they are chocolate
delicious goodies that have just been
launched in the US, so you can get them
locally now. Uh, but ultimately every
Friday I talk about a Tim Tam tip. So
it's my excuse to eat them. I record
something or take a photo and relate it
back to a LinkedIn marketing tip. And
when I go and speak, so I'll be at
Social Media Marketing World in a few
weeks. My suitcase will have 300 of
these in my suitcase so I can share them
with the people in the audience. So the
first thing that happened when people
found out I was speaking this year, the
ones that had seen me in previous years,
the first question, are you bringing the
Tim Tams?
>> Do you like chuck them at people from
the audience?
>> I have uh thought about that approach
and now at least they're individually
wrapped so I can make sure that they all
get put on the seat or given to people
as they walk in the door. But it's about
creating memorable moments. And I think
that's the purpose of this content is
not just to post content for content's
sake. To hit a KPI of, oh, I posted
three times this week.
>> Well, who cares? Like really, does
anyone
>> You're saying find your Tim Tam.
>> Exactly. Find your Tim Tam.
>> Tim, whatever it is, find your Tim Tam
and keep on offering the Tim Tam.
>> Yeah. Because people laugh and say, "But
it's okay for you, Michelle. it's just
Tim Tams. We can't talk about our
product that much. And I'm like, you
have even more reason to talk about your
product that much. And you know, for me,
it's always the reminder that I should
be doing that for my other products and
services that I do just as much so that
they're connected, you know, and this is
the thing listeners like
>> I have these conversations cuz sometimes
I need the reminder, you know, and so
thanks for, you know, coming on Lee so I
can talk about it. But let's go the
other way. So, we know that there's a
lot of waste going on out there with all
of this corporate content. Let's go the
other way. What does an actual strong
content system look like when it's
working properly?
>> Sure. Three things. Okay, we talked
about this before, but it's the
alignment. Your sales, your product, and
your account teams are all aware of
content and how to use it. So, they've
been trained. They're in synergy.
They're passing information back and
forth. So, that's the first one. The
sales team is giving ideas to the
content team based on customer
conversations. They're the closest to
the customer. They have to be informing
content. And the content team is
actively repurposing. We've talked about
this. So taking the best things from the
center of gravity and making assets that
are easily usable and easily available
for those other teams. That's what it
that's what should be happening when
it's all working well.
>> Yeah. the emphasis on should, but it's
not really hard. What we're talking here
is actually not anything that's super
complicated. No,
>> but it does require planning and it's
setting time aside. And I think quite
often when everyone's pulled in every
single direction and they're all
juggling so many different hats that
often like especially when it comes to
LinkedIn and the company page, the
content's like so far down the level of
conversation uh that people forget about
it, you know, and so we want to say
look, the earlier that we get in the
room together and have these
conversations, you're not just creating
good content, but effective content
that's, you know, aligned to those
goals.
Why not?
>> Somebody's in charge. Somebody has to be
in charge of this. You can't just have,
you know, your admin who has the spare
time or your social media coordinator
trying to run this. They may not be
interested. They may not know what
they're doing. They may be too busy. You
have to properly put somebody in charge
of this.
>> And again, that sounds like, isn't that
so obvious? Isn't it like something that
everybody should already have? Yeah. No.
Not in my experience either.
>> No, not in my experience either. When
I'm working with clients, like you often
assume that these things are in place,
but when you actually do a little bit of
digging, it's really interesting to see
that quite often content, I want to say,
is like an afterthought. It's the last
thing that people want to do and
everything else is more important. And
I'd like to see from this conversation
that things get elevated. And I think
when we create good content and have
systems for distributing it as far and
wide and as many times as possible where
it makes sense, not just for the sake of
it. I don't know, how do you feel? Like
Gary Vee says like create 350,000 pieces
of content a day or whatever number he's
up to these days. How do you feel about
that kind of volume game? I don't
personally get it, but I'm always
>> sounds like a purging of words or some
sort of Yeah, it doesn't sound good to
me at all. I would much rather see very
aligned, high quality, strong content
than I just picture some, you know, when
you know when a kid throws a package of
cards up in the air and they just go
everywhere or you or you don't put the
lid on the popcorn popper when you're
popping and it just explodes. That is
what Gary Vee makes me think of.
>> It does make me think of that as well.
And I I I I try I'm not a podcast
listener as my listeners already know
which is ironic given I do two podcasts
but I was at the gym trying to listen to
one of Gary Ve's podcast recently so I
could learn from that and one of the
interesting things he was saying that in
a particular industry if they weren't
putting out I think it was like five or
10 or 15 pieces of content every single
day and it was in the real estate
industry actually they weren't putting
out that much a day then they were
losing and that's why they weren't
selling and I was like 15 pieces of
content for an individual to do like
without systems and processes. I'm like
thinking, okay, and yes, I get that
there's a lot of platforms that we could
do it and a lot of tools, but as I was
listening to this podcast, which was
just a recording of him speaking and a
really bad recording at that, I was
thinking the quality of this
conversation is so hard to listen to and
it's distracting. Like even for someone
that doesn't particularly enjoy podcast,
but I wanted to learn, but sometimes
doing it just for the sake of doing it,
it feels like for me, you're just
getting slimed. It's like someone's just
pouring stuff over you and you're like,
"Get this stuff off me." And I don't
know, like I This is where I'm like, I
get that we can, but should we? I don't
know.
>> You should not. And AI makes it so much
easier to publish and publish and
publish.
>> Yeah. Look, and again, this is where a
bit of discretion and coming back to
that strategy comes in into play. And I
mean, I'm a fan of playing with the
tools to see what's out there. And
there's a an interesting one that I'm
playing around with at the moment from
the the team at OpusP Pro. And basically
what that does is takes your blog
articles and turns it into videos. And
you know, the technology is new, but
some of the stuff that it pulls out is
cool because yes, we don't have time to
all be video content creators and write
long form blogs and do this and do that.
Like it's just not practical. So, I love
the idea and I'm playing around with it
so I can share it with like you know the
listeners and some of the clients but
it's something I was like yeah that's a
cool use of AI like take it in one
format that's what I do with the podcast
I use that tool so that I can then clip
it and take my long form and you know we
get five or so clips out of every
podcast episode and then that just makes
my content you know so much easier to
keep up with. So yeah, I'm not anti-AII
or the tools, but
>> not at all.
>> Just cause isn't a reason.
>> Yeah, just cause is never a reason,
>> right? It isn't. So, a question for you,
Lee, as we, you know, kind of come
around to the end of the conversation,
but if someone's listening to this and
realizing that they're actually wasting
content, and let's assume that it's the
good content that they've done the
research, understand the clients, but
have a goal in mind that's aligned to
the business goals for that piece of
content, and they've figured all of that
out, but they're still wasting it. What
do you think that they should fix first?
Probably the first thing to do is well
get your arms around what you've got.
Catalog it. Do you how many blog posts
do you have? How many what whatever the
content pieces are, catalog it so you
can understand what to update, make it
fresh, keep it current, what to deep,
what to literally get rid of because
there is usually a case for archiving
half of your blogs if you have 500 of
them and where your gaps are. You can't
possibly know where your gaps are unless
you know what you've got. And lots of
the teams I meet with don't they don't
even know what they've got. So they
don't even know if they have good
content because there's a trash pile, a
zombie wasteland of content over here on
the left. So figure out what you've got,
update it, keep it current, and figure
out how to repurpose it. Focus on that
before you go creating all new stuff.
And if you look at your content and none
of it has a point of view and none of
it's aligned with the buyer and it's
really all bad, then you kind of need to
start over. that I meet very few brands
who are actually in that situation.
They're sitting on good content, a great
report from a year ago that just needs
to be updated and then you write three
blogs from that and four newsletters
from it and 25 social posts and an email
nurture sequence can come out of it.
Look, and and I was just thinking you as
you were talking, there was like another
client, you know, these clients popped
to mind because this is actually really
real problems that we see out there.
And, you know, I had a client that they
spend the best part of 6 to 12 months, a
whole team coming up with these amazing
research papers that are, you know, like
there's there's a lot that goes into it,
not just one that you do to try and get
email signups, but this is part of, you
know, their business. And I just
remember their only goal was, you know,
throw it on the website so you can sign
up for something, probably send out the
corporate email newsletter and do one
post on LinkedIn. And no one could see
any of it. And I was like, we need to
switch this up because this is where I
think LinkedIn can come in very handy,
especially if you've got your company
page and your employees both being
active like you were sharing before. And
I was like, no, no, no. We need to let
everybody know. I call it like the big
bang effect like you know drown the
platform on you know a couple of days
and go really hard so every which way
that somebody looks all they see is
people talking about this particular
report and research and because this was
like next level. This wasn't just this
is like a whole team of people working
on nothing but this cutting edge
research for a period of time that was
literally just getting the plunker on
the website treatment and one post and
it I'm sure it makes your little heart
cry when you hear things like this cry.
So that needed a full launch plan.
>> Yeah,
>> that needed an email nurture sequence.
It needs to be in the company's featured
section and the featured section of the
employees. It needs to be downloadable
from email footers, from about sections.
It needs to be all over the place and
then three blog posts on it and 10
social posts on it, fullcourt press, and
then don't take your foot off the gas
because that report doesn't expire after
12 days. Hopefully, you wrote something
with a shelf life.
>> That's the thing. That's the craziness
that people often think, oh, I already
posted that 3 months ago. It's too old.
It's like, no, no, no. that research is
not going out of date that quickly or if
it is why did you put that much effort
into it if it's something that's
disappears so quickly you know and you
know so this is where the thought
leadership comes into it and you know
really like you said planning not just
what research is going into it but how
are we going to distribute it in the
best way possible so we are not wasting
this great content so Lee thank you for
such a wonderful conversation today I
hope it's the first of many that you and
I will have because I do really think
that listeners, if you enjoy
newsletters, I'm going to put the
details on how you can sign up for these
on the show notes. So, go and check
those out because I enjoy it because it
makes me think, how can I improve my
content planning? So, I appreciate you
sharing everything that you have today.
>> Absolutely. Thanks for having me.
>> So, until next week, listeners, cheers.